But O had I been born both Deaf and Blind, Then might I scape this Hell tormenting mind; His Wit like various Musick pierc'd my Ear, Some being solemn, and some pleasant were And when he spake, his person did appear Like to the Sun, when no dark Clouds were neer; Fame of his valour, like a trumpet sound, Through Ears from Heart, unto the Eyes rebound; And then his person, like Yet so, as when fair O Love forbear, use not this cruelty, Either bind him, or give me liberty. Great Fortune, I at this time do implore, That thou wilt open every hearing door, Which are the Ears: let not my Wit be lost, For want of bearing, nor my words be crost, Nor yet destructed by a busling noise, Or gazing, or observing some light toyes: But let their Ears be sixt, as if their sight Did view my words, till on their Ears they light. Great Imploy thy favour, help me in distress; Thou God of Eloquence, so guide my tongue, Let all my words on even sense be slrung, And let my Speech be tun'd to every Ear, That every Ear each several word may hear: That every passion may in measure move, And let the figure of the Dance be Love. Love plead my Sute, and if I be deny'd, My heart will break, and Death my Face will hide. Grief on my heart his heavy taxes layes; Which through my Eyes, my heart those taxes payes. Dear Mistriss stay, that I may gaze upon you, Then bow my knee, as to the rising Sun; Heave up my hands, as when to Heaven I pray, But being amaz'd, know not one word I say: Yet superstitiously, I shall adore, As my chief Goddess, shall thy love implore; And being worship'd, you are deifi'd, Your Godhead in your Beauty doth recide. Thou absolute Beauty, for thy dear sake, Of Lovers hearts, a foot-stool shall be made; A Cushion soft, with Hopes fill'd full, then laid, For thee to stand, and triumph on, fair Maid; And Lovers Souls shall from their bodyes fly, For thee a Couch, when weary on to ly. Thy Lovers tears for to invite thy rest, In murmuring streams, fall on thy marble brest; And gentle sighs, like whispering winds shall blow, And fan thy Cheeks, that Poets fire may glow: Loves Melancholy thoughts, like Clouds of night, Like as thy Curtains, drawn before thy sight; For fear the Sun should trouble out of spight, Thy Eyes repose, being the greater light. Sweet Beauty, thou in a glorious Throne shall set, The spangled Heaven, seems but thy Counterfeit; Thy Charriot shall be stuck with Eyes all gazing, And oyld with Eloquent tongues, that runs with praysing: Drawn by large strong well shapt Commendations, Guided by Fame, about two several Nations. Why do you woo Beauty, that is Deaf and Dumb, That hears no praise, nor adoration; It seeth no hands heav'd up, nor tears that fall, It hath no tongue to answer Love withall; It hath no Life, no Soul where passion lies, It neither gives, nor takes instructions wise: It is no solid Body you admire, No substance, but a shadow you desire. Great Fame my Prayers I direct to thee, That thou wilt keep me in thy memory; And place my Name in the large brazen Tower, That neither Spight, nor Time may it devour; And write it plain, that every age may see, My Names inscrib'd to live eternally: Let not Malice obstruct my Wit with spight, But let it shine in its own clear light. A Banquet of sweet Wit to entertain This Noble Company, and feast each brain; And let each several Ear feed with delight, Not be disturb'd with foul malicious spight. For which my good wishes shall attend you, That the Gods of these Starrs may defend you. Great To bless my Sisters, not to favour me; Unless I were thy subject to obey, But I am But give me leave for to decide the cause, And for to speak the truth of marriage laws; Or else through ignorance each man and wife, May rebels prove by Matrimonial strife. And that Death may not rob you of your breed, But after your life your Children may succeed. O How my heart doth ake when think I do, How I a modest Maid a man did woo! To be so confident to woo him here, Upon the publick Stage to every Ear; Men sure will censure me for mad, if not To be in some unlucky Planet got, Or else will tax me of dishonesty, As seeming like a bold immodesty; Well, I have woo'd, yet am I not despis'd, But am by Virtuous honour highly priz'd; Because my Love was spotless, pure, and Chast, And on a noble worthy man was plac'd; Then why should I blush, weep, or yet repent, Or shun the wooing part to represent, But rather joy and glory in my choice? If you approve my Act pray giv't a voice●